During my second-year in my T-Level Course, I worked at the Department for Work and Pensions as a Student Software Engineer, where I was introduced to version-control, TDD, OOP,  client-server architecture, databases and APIs. I worked in a team that followed an Agile Development Lifecycle, and for my project, I built a backend system using Express, NodeJS, Docker and MySQL for the backend architecture. I learnt simple concepts like user authentication, SQL Injection, and XXS. I collaborated with the front-end devs on the team working on the same project, to help solve code bugs, and also led bi-weekly standup meetings. At the end of the T-Level Placement, I got to present the backend architecture to technical and non-technical stakeholders, resulting in a high positive feedback
Outside from that, I have continuously developed my skillsets in Backend engineering, in languages like Go for distributed systems, Python for socket-based/networking operations and APIS and Typescript for other backend services. I've been able to build a simple micro-service architecture using GoLang, RabbitMQ and Docker. I've also been able to create a lightweight custom CI/CD pipeline using JavaScript and bash scripting. 

During my first introduction to programming, it felt like a chore trying to understand why an `if statement` is that. But then, I began to practice more often, and build up on concepts through reading documentations, failing and learning from those mistakes. With a conscientious mindset, I was able to learn core problem solving skills. For example, during while working on a personal project, using Python, I was building a network protocol that allows me to send files over from my virtual environment, WSL, at the socket level over to Windows. I faced a problem where I had to make sure if my server disconnected unexpectedly or the client itself, all data would remain persistent, and we can use simple authentication methods like matching port addresses. So I decided to use Redis as a caching mechanism to commit to memory every client that had disconnected unexpectedly, including the number of packets sent, the file they were sending and more. So that the could be authenticated for retrials. Another issue rose where it could be possible that any client could easily reproduce some of these factors, so I decided I issue them a unique id before the protocol starts. This led to reduced duplication of files and making sure no corrupt data exists. 
Communication and teamwork go hand-in-hand. During my T-Level Placement at the Department for Work and Pensions, I got to work with a diverse set of people with diverse skill-sets. QA Team, DevOps, product managers, business analysts and more. More often times than not, I had to deliver standup reports that catered to both technical and non-technical stakeholders. On my team, I would often collaborate with the front-end team on how we should go about integrating the frontend and backend. I would also get involved in peer coding sessions to help resolve bug issues, and also seek help from Senior Engineers on the bugs I wrote too, and learn from them. A senior engineer had first introduced me to Docker and I've been learning more about it, although difficult.
Why Monzo would be a good company to work at? Monzo represents growth. From starting out as a prepaid card company, to now making banking services available to a wider population. Making banking easier through problem-solving, teamwork and most importantly, understanding the customers, is the ethos I stand for. And while I have been able to demonstrate my motivation to pursue a career in backend engineering, collaborative skills self-development, I know that I will be able to learn more from the team at Monzo.
